README.md, before:

## OpenCV: Open Source Computer Vision Library


### Resources

* Homepage: <https://opencv.org>
  * Courses: <https://opencv.org/courses>
* Docs: <https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/>
* Q&A forum: <https://forum.opencv.org>
  * previous forum (read only): <http://answers.opencv.org>
* Issue tracking: <https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues>
* Additional OpenCV functionality: <https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib>
* Donate to OpenCV: <https://opencv.org/support/>


### Contributing

Please read the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/How_to_contribute) before starting work on a pull request.

#### Summary of the guidelines:

* One pull request per issue;
* Choose the right base branch;
* Include tests and documentation;
* Clean up "oops" commits before submitting;
* Follow the [coding style guide](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Coding_Style_Guide).

### Additional Resources

* [Submit your OpenCV-based project](https://form.jotform.com/233105358823151) for inclusion in Community Friday on opencv.org
* [Subscribe to the OpenCV YouTube Channel](http://youtube.com/@opencvofficial) featuring OpenCV Live, an hour-long streaming show
* [Follow OpenCV on LinkedIn](http://linkedin.com/company/opencv/) for daily posts showing the state-of-the-art in computer vision & AI
* [Apply to be an OpenCV Volunteer](https://form.jotform.com/232745316792159) to help organize events and online campaigns as well as amplify them
* [Follow OpenCV on Mastodon](http://mastodon.social/@opencv) in the Fediverse
* [Follow OpenCV on Twitter](https://twitter.com/opencvlive)
* [OpenCV.ai](https://opencv.ai): Computer Vision and AI development services from the OpenCV team.

Commit message:

docs: add quick start tutorial section to README

README.md, after:

## OpenCV: Open Source Computer Vision Library

## Quick Start Tutorial for Beginners

This tutorial helps newcomers get started with OpenCV:

1. Installation
```python
pip install opencv-python

### Resources

* Homepage: <https://opencv.org>
  * Courses: <https://opencv.org/courses>
* Docs: <https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/>
* Q&A forum: <https://forum.opencv.org>
  * previous forum (read only): <http://answers.opencv.org>
* Issue tracking: <https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues>
* Additional OpenCV functionality: <https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib>
* Donate to OpenCV: <https://opencv.org/support/>


### Contributing

Please read the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/How_to_contribute) before starting work on a pull request.

#### Summary of the guidelines:

* One pull request per issue;
* Choose the right base branch;
* Include tests and documentation;
* Clean up "oops" commits before submitting;
* Follow the [coding style guide](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Coding_Style_Guide).

### Additional Resources

* [Submit your OpenCV-based project](https://form.jotform.com/233105358823151) for inclusion in Community Friday on opencv.org
* [Subscribe to the OpenCV YouTube Channel](http://youtube.com/@opencvofficial) featuring OpenCV Live, an hour-long streaming show
* [Follow OpenCV on LinkedIn](http://linkedin.com/company/opencv/) for daily posts showing the state-of-the-art in computer vision & AI
* [Apply to be an OpenCV Volunteer](https://form.jotform.com/232745316792159) to help organize events and online campaigns as well as amplify them
* [Follow OpenCV on Mastodon](http://mastodon.social/@opencv) in the Fediverse
* [Follow OpenCV on Twitter](https://twitter.com/opencvlive)
* [OpenCV.ai](https://opencv.ai): Computer Vision and AI development services from the OpenCV team.
