doc/tutorials/core/table_of_content_core/table_of_content_core.rst, before:

.. _Table-Of-Content-Core:

*core* module. The Core Functionality
-----------------------------------------------------------

Here you will learn the about the basic building blocks of the library. A must read and know for understanding how to manipulate the images on a pixel level.

.. include:: ../../definitions/tocDefinitions.rst

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |MatBasicIma|  **Title:** :ref:`matTheBasicImageContainer`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You will learn how to store images in the memory and how to print out their content to the console.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |MatBasicIma| image:: images/matTheBasicImageStructure.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |HowScanImag|  **Title:** :ref:`howToScanImagesOpenCV`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You'll find out how to scan images (go through each of the image pixels) with OpenCV. Bonus: time measurement with OpenCV.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |HowScanImag| image:: images/howToScanImages.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt
                   

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_4|  **Title:** :ref:`Adding_Images`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to blend two images!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_4| image:: images/Adding_Images_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ====================================================
   |Bas_Lin_Tran| **Title:** :ref:`Basic_Linear_Transform`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to change our image appearance!

  =============== ====================================================

  .. |Bas_Lin_Tran| image:: images/Basic_Linear_Transform_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                              :height: 90pt
                              :width:  90pt



+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_6|  **Title:** :ref:`Drawing_1`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to draw simple geometry with OpenCV!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_6| image:: images/Drawing_1_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_7|  **Title:** * :ref:`Drawing_2`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will draw some *fancy-looking* stuff using OpenCV!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_7| image:: images/Drawing_2_Tutorial_Result_7.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |DiscFourTr|   **Title:** * :ref:`discretFourierTransform`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You will see how and why use the Discrete Fourier transformation with OpenCV.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |DiscFourTr| image:: images/discrete_fourier_transform.png
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

.. raw:: latex

   \pagebreak

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   
   ../mat - the basic image container/mat - the basic image container
   ../how_to_scan_images/how_to_scan_images
   ../adding_images/adding_images
   ../basic_linear_transform/basic_linear_transform
   ../basic_geometric_drawing/basic_geometric_drawing
   ../random_generator_and_text/random_generator_and_text
   ../mat-mask-operations/mat-mask-operations
   ../discrete_fourier_transform/discrete_fourier_transform

Commit message:

Added the File Input and Output using XML and YAML files tutorial.

doc/tutorials/core/table_of_content_core/table_of_content_core.rst, after:

.. _Table-Of-Content-Core:

*core* module. The Core Functionality
-----------------------------------------------------------

Here you will learn the about the basic building blocks of the library. A must read and know for understanding how to manipulate the images on a pixel level.

.. include:: ../../definitions/tocDefinitions.rst

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |MatBasicIma|  **Title:** :ref:`matTheBasicImageContainer`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You will learn how to store images in the memory and how to print out their content to the console.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |MatBasicIma| image:: images/matTheBasicImageStructure.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |HowScanImag|  **Title:** :ref:`howToScanImagesOpenCV`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You'll find out how to scan images (go through each of the image pixels) with OpenCV. Bonus: time measurement with OpenCV.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |HowScanImag| image:: images/howToScanImages.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt
                   

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_4|  **Title:** :ref:`Adding_Images`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to blend two images!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_4| image:: images/Adding_Images_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ====================================================
   |Bas_Lin_Tran| **Title:** :ref:`Basic_Linear_Transform`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to change our image appearance!

  =============== ====================================================

  .. |Bas_Lin_Tran| image:: images/Basic_Linear_Transform_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                              :height: 90pt
                              :width:  90pt



+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_6|  **Title:** :ref:`Drawing_1`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will learn how to draw simple geometry with OpenCV!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_6| image:: images/Drawing_1_Tutorial_Result_0.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |Beginners_7|  **Title:** :ref:`Drawing_2`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_AnaH|

                  We will draw some *fancy-looking* stuff using OpenCV!

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |Beginners_7| image:: images/Drawing_2_Tutorial_Result_7.jpg
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
   |DiscFourTr|   **Title:** :ref:`discretFourierTransform`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You will see how and why use the Discrete Fourier transformation with OpenCV.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |DiscFourTr| image:: images/discrete_fourier_transform.png
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

+
  .. tabularcolumns:: m{100pt} m{300pt}
  .. cssclass:: toctableopencv

  =============== ======================================================
  |FileIOXMLYAML| **Title:** :ref:`fileInputOutputXMLYAML`

                  *Compatibility:* > OpenCV 2.0

                  *Author:* |Author_BernatG|

                  You will see how to use the :xmlymlpers:`FileStorage <filestorage>` data structure of OpenCV to write and read data to XML or YAML file format.

  =============== ======================================================

  .. |FileIOXMLYAML| image:: images/file_input_output_with_xml_yml.png
                   :height: 90pt
                   :width:  90pt

.. raw:: latex

   \pagebreak

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   
   ../mat - the basic image container/mat - the basic image container
   ../how_to_scan_images/how_to_scan_images
   ../adding_images/adding_images
   ../basic_linear_transform/basic_linear_transform
   ../basic_geometric_drawing/basic_geometric_drawing
   ../random_generator_and_text/random_generator_and_text
   ../mat-mask-operations/mat-mask-operations
   ../discrete_fourier_transform/discrete_fourier_transform
   ../file_input_output_with_xml_yml/file_input_output_with_xml_yml
